we begin with a developing story out of
Syria an Israeli air strike has hit the
Consular section of the Iranian Embassy
in the capital Damascus at least five
people have been killed among the dead
is a senior commander of the Islamic
revolutionary guard Corps several of the
embassy's diplomats have also reportedly
been killed in the attack Iran's foreign
minister says the Israeli attack is a
breach of all International conventions
let's bring in our correspondent Zena
hod she's joining us live from Beirut
and Zena is Iran saying that a consular
Annex was attacked by fighter jets what
are you learning about this
incident well no doubt this is a major
escalation in Regional tensions both
Syria and Iran are accusing Israel of
targeting the Iranian Consulate in the
heart of the Syrian Capital Damascus the
pictures the videos emerging from
Damascus show a building completely
flattened this is a diplomatic Mission
and diplomatic missions should be safe
they should be immune according to
international law so this is really akin
to targeting a country on another
country's soil now the Iranian
ambassador to Syria says that he was in
the next the adjacent building he
survived the attack he's also saying and
promising that Iran is going to respond
in his words the response will be Swift
and and harsh other Iranian officials on
Twitter are saying that quote the
Zionist regime entered a new phase in
this war by attacking an embassy and
that no Israeli Embassy will be safe so
this no doubt is a significant attack
Israel has been targeting Iranian and
Iranian link targets for years now uh
but this is the first time hitting a
consulate they've killed Generals in the
past but in this particular strike they
also killed a ranking uh commander in
the cus Force so yet another major blow
to Iran a number of Iranian generals
have been killed in recent months so
Iran is promising a retaliation and this
really has we've seen a pattern and
optic in the Israeli strikes um you know
uh targeting Iranian positions and
Iranian Pol link positions in Syria in
in the past few months ever since
October ever since the war on Gaza began
and ever since the Iranian L so-called
axis of resistance opened fronts against
Israeli forces to help Palestinians in
Gaza Zena thank you very much for that
that's our correspondent Z with what we
know so far joining us live from
Beirut let's bring in hamuth she's live
and occupied East Jerusalem H the White
House says they're looking into the
reports of what's happened in Damascus
but has there been any comment from the
israelies about this
attack there there's been no comment
from the Israelis on this attack in
Syria as is per the typical Israeli
policy of not commenting on their
military activities in Syria but it
comes after Israel's defense minister
just a couple of days ago yab Galan
speaking saying that Israel is going to
intensify its attacks on all enemies
whether it's in Lebanon whether it's in
Damascus and however far they are
additionally we know that Israel's
military Chief of Staff hery halevi
while speaking in Israel's North has
said that they authorized plans for
quote the continuation of fighting that
is with Lebanon but it could also mean a
continuation of strikes on Syria the
Israelis have said repeatedly that they
are going to go after any Target
anywhere in the world wherever and
whenever they see fit additionally they
have said that whenever they carry out a
strike in the daytime it means that they
have direct and precise Intelligence on
a Target or on a person they are trying
to Target or assassinate so while
there's been no comment on the Israelis
from this remember that there was also
no comment from the Israelis back when
salahi was assassinated in Lebanon as
well so it's unlikely we are going to be
hearing from the Israelis on this strike
in Syria as per the regular Israeli
military policy ham thank you for that
ham Salud joining us live from occupied
East
Jerusalem we're going to bring in our
correspondent Ali Hashim now aliu have
covered the region extensively Iran
State media has confirmed that Muhammad
Rea shahadi of Iran's revolutionary
guard cor has been killed what do we
know about him well Muhammad zahidi is
one of the most senior irgc commanders
he used to be before uh being dispatched
to to the region to to Lebanon and Syria
he was also the uh head of Iran's area
the irgc's aerial forces the ground
forces he took several responsibilities
over the past years however um he's been
in and out in in Lebanon since the 80s
and and '90s
and was said to be the head of the irgc
in Lebanon now meaning to be the head of
irgc in Lebanon means that he's in very
close coordination with Lebanese group
hasballah and in
2021 uh after Javad gafari who was
Iran's irgc commander in Syria was
dismissed he was appointed as the head
in Lebanon and and Syria so he's a very
senior commander and he has a lot of uh
respect inside Iran especially within
the hierarchy of the leadership okay so
really a huge Target here it's of course
not the first killing of someone from
the Islamic revolutionary guard core
since the war on Gaza began we were
hearing from our correspondent and
occupied East Jerusalem ham the Salud
she was talking about the assassination
of the Hamas leader Salah alarri and and
he was said to have you know been going
between Hamas between Hezbollah if we
look at the pattern of who's been killed
since October 7th who is Israel going
after well in fact there there have been
several assassinations over the past six
months starting with a couple of Iranian
irgc Tech guys uh they are officers in
the irgc but they're mainly specialized
in technology and I think as as they
were as the Israelis accused them they
were responsible for drone attacks these
were the first two irgc officers who
were killed in Syria and in Israeli a
strike then there was an assassination
of a Hamas uh operative in Syria and
that was surprising because of all what
we know of on the kind of troubled
relations between Hamas and Syria and
that was responsible for launching
Rockets from the Goan Heights to from
Golan towards the occupied Golem then
the assassination of razil musawi who
was the irgc logistics guy he was one of
the most senior irgc commanders in in
Syria and actually he was killed near
Damascus then the assassination of
saluri then the assassination of the
irgc intelligence unit in Syria and now
the killing of uh zahidi General zah
General zahidi and it's not only zahid
who was killed his assistant his Deputy
actually was killed and the guy who
replaced razil musawi the guy was killed
in in in uh uh in December
2023 who succeeded him was also
assassinated today so Israel is going
behind all the networks and it seems
that it's hitting the layers different
layers of communication coordination and
Leadership and this is aimed mainly at
uh uprooting the Iranian military
influence and at the same time the for
example with the killing ofi the
leadership of the resistance groups
whether in Lebanon or in Syria of course
we have to mention also the killing of
hezbollah's uh field commanders uh
during the past months we're hearing
from Iran's foreign minister and our
correspondent Zena in Beirut touched on
this saying that they hold Israel
responsible that there will be
consequences how do you expect Iran to
respond they have refrained from
responding directly so far but this
attack is something else is it not well
over the past few months there have been
several assassinations as we said but it
was clear that the deterrence the
Iranian deterence is distored and it
isn't it it isn't uh capable of uh
retaliating or they're taking a kind of
a decision to keep a space or distance
and not
retaliating the fact is that today's
attack is is different we can't give an
answer because this is within the the
the
the area of analysis however it's more
Pro most probably that with the hitting
of a consulate which is kind of an
Iranian soil the Iranians are in front
of a big decision to take or else the
deterrence will get weakened and
weakened day after day and then with the
killings uh of such high ranking
commanders maybe we'll see much more
bigger assassinations over the coming
weeks Ali thank you very much for your
analysis say that is our correspondent
Ali Hashim